https://www.gov.uk/guidance/software-developer#developer

6.ii.2023

Senior developer
A senior developer delivers and integrates software to form a complete service.

At this role level, you will:

plan and lead development on sets of related stories
have an understanding of the whole system and take responsibility for teaching this to others
work with other disciplines to understand what needs to be built
coach and mentor more junior colleagues
operate the production services you build
find ways to improve system robustness, resilience and stability
There are 2 different roles at this level - a technical role and a management role.

Skills needed for this role level
Availability and capacity management. You can manage service components to ensure they meet business needs and performance targets. (Skill level: working)
Development process optimisation. You can identify process optimisation opportunities with guidance and contribute to the implementation of proposed solutions. (Skill level: working)
Information security. You can understand information security. You can design solutions and services with security controls embedded, specifically engineered with mitigation of security threats as a core feature. (Skill level: practitioner)
Modern standards approach. You can competently apply a modern standards approach and guide others to do so. (Skill level: practitioner)
Programming and build (software engineering). You can collaborate with others when necessary to review specifications. You can use the agreed specifications to design, code, test and document programs or scripts of medium-to-high complexity, using the right standards and tools. (Skill level: practitioner)
Prototyping. You can approach prototyping as a team activity, actively soliciting prototypes and testing with others. You can establish design patterns and iterate them. You can use a variety of prototyping methods and choose the most appropriate. (Skill level: practitioner)
Service support. You can identify, locate and fix faults. (Skill level: practitioner)
Systems design. You can design systems characterised by medium levels of risk, impact, and business or technical complexity. You can select appropriate design standards, methods and tools, and ensure they are applied effectively. You can review the systems designs of others to ensure the selection of appropriate technology, efficient use of resources and integration of multiple systems and technology. (Skill level: practitioner)
Systems integration. You can define the integration build. You can co-ordinate build activities across systems. You can understand how to undertake and support integration testing activities. (Skill level: practitioner)
User focus. You can collaborate with user researchers and can represent users internally. You can explain the difference between user needs and the desires of the user. You can champion user research to focus on all users. You can prioritise and define approaches to understand the user story, guiding others in doing so. You can offer recommendations on the best tools and methods to use. (Skill level: practitioner)